Have you ever faced the challenge
of making decisions or providing insights based
on large amounts of data? This can be quite a daunting task, especially if the data is
difficult to read and understand. Fortunately, you've come
to the right place. This course on Preparing Data for Analysis
in Microsoft Excel will equip you with the skills you need to work
with large blocks of data and make it easier to read and understand. Data analysis is a process that involves
defining the purpose of the data, gathering, cleaning, and
analyzing it to gain insights. Businesses often use data
analysis to obtain usable, relevant information that can assist them
in making educated business decisions. However, this is usually done with large
amounts of data that you need to cleanse, transform, and analyze. You will often have to present
this data in charts, tables, and graphs that provide relevant insights. Your data insights will help organizations
to lessen the risks associated with making business decisions. Microsoft Excel can assist you in
analyzing data for your business, and you don't need an IT related
qualification to do this. The Preparing Data for Analysis with
Microsoft Excel course is designed for anybody that's interested in
learning about preparing data for analysis within a business context. It also establishes a foundation for anyone striving to have
a career in data analytics. Through data analytics in Excel,
you'll be able to collect, store, and delve deeper into your business's data. You'll also learn to harness the power of
data using tools for sourcing, gathering, transforming, and analyzing data. Now, let's go over a brief overview
of what you will learn over the next few weeks. To kickstart your learning journey,
you'll discovered the fundamental and essential Microsoft Excel elements and
techniques for creating workbook content. These techniques include entering,
formatting, managing and adding data to worksheets. You'll then learn how to read large
blocks of data and review the steps for sorting and filtering data in Excel. Next, you'll discover
how to use formulas and functions to perform
calculations in Excel. Then you'll learn how to prepare data for
analysis using functions. You'll explore functions
that are used to clean or standardize text to prepare it for
effective analysis. You'll then investigate the use of date
and time functions in Excel so that you can complete actions like creating
timeline information in a spreadsheet. You'll also review the use of
logical functions like IF and IFS. And you'll learn how to use these logical
functions to generate content like data columns. In the last module,
you'll undertake a final project. In this project, you'll create
a worksheet with an executive summary of a business's month by month profit margin
performance compared to the previous year. This project will help to prepare you for the final capstone project
at the end of this program. Finally, you'll have the chance to
recap on what you've learned and focus on areas you feel
you can improve upon. Throughout the course, you will encounter
many videos that will gradually guide you toward a solid understanding of
preparing data for analysis. Watch, pause, rewind, and rewatch the videos until you're
confident in your skills. Then consolidate your knowledge by
consulting the course readings and measuring your understanding of key
topics by completing the different knowledge checks and quizzes. This will set you on your way toward a
career in data analytics and form part of your preparation to take the PL 300,
Microsoft Power BI, Data Analyst exam. By the end of the course, you'll be
equipped with the necessary skills to work effectively with data in Microsoft Excel. Good luck as you start this
exciting learning journey.